Beta docs restructure ctl services pt2 (#401)
openstack-k8s-operators/data-plane-adoption: docs_user/assemblies/assembly_preparing-the-block-storage-service-for-adoption.adoc

[id="preparing-the-block-storage-service_{context}"]

:context: preparing-block-storage

= Preparing the {block_storage} configurations for adoption

As described in xref:planning-the-new-deployment_planning[Planning the new deployment], {block_storage_first_ref} is configured using

> configuration snippets instead of using obscure configuration parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
configuration snippets instead of using configuration parameters
```

defined by the installer.

The recommended way to deploy {block_storage} volume backends has changed to remove old

> limitations, add flexibility, and improve operations in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
limitations, add flexibility, and improve operations.
```

When deploying with {OpenStackPreviousInstaller} you used to run a single {block_storage} volume service with
all your backends (each backend would run on its own process), and even though
that way of deploying is still supported, it is not recommended. It is recommended to use a volume service per backend since it is a superior deployment model.

> So for an LVM and a Ceph backend you would have 2 entries in `cinderVolume` and,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With an LVM and a Ceph backend you have 2 entries in `cinderVolume` and,
```

as mentioned in the limitations section, you cannot set global defaults for all
volume services, so you have to define it for each of them, like this:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: core.openstack.org/v1beta1
kind: OpenStackControlPlane
metadata:
  name: openstack
spec:
  cinder:
    enabled: true
    template:
      cinderVolume:
        lvm:
          customServiceConfig: |
            [DEFAULT]
            debug = True
            [lvm]
< . . . >
        ceph:
          customServiceConfig: |
            [DEFAULT]
            debug = True
            [ceph]
< . . . >
----

Reminder that for volume backends that have sensitive information using `Secret`
and the `customServiceConfigSecrets` key is the recommended way to go.

For adoption instead of using a whole deployment manifest you use a targeted
patch, like you did with other services, and in this patch you will enable the
different Block Storage services with their specific configurations.

[WARNING]
Check that all configuration options are still valid for the new

> {rhos_prev_long} version, since configuration options may have been deprecated,

Reviewer: only use since to refer to time

removed, or added. This applies to both backend driver specific configuration
options and other generic options.

There are 2 ways to prepare a {block_storage} configuration for adoption, tailor-making
it or doing it quick and dirty. There is no difference in how {block_storage} will

> operate with both methods, though tailor-making it is recommended whenever possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
operates with both methods, though tailor-making it is recommended whenever possible.
```
